stoic = a person who can endure pain or hardship without 
        showing their feelings or complaining.

vicissitude = a change of circumstances or fortune, 
             typically one that is unwelcome or unpleasant.

the wise live in harmony with the divine Reason
(also identified with Fate and Providence) that governs nature, 
and are indifferent to the vicissitudes of fortune and to pleasure and pain.

segue = move without interruption from one piece of music or scene to another.

treatise = a written work dealing formally and systematically with a subject.
squander = to spend or use
sloth = laziness
insatiable = incapable of being satisfied
exhausted = very tired
patron = a person who gives financial or other support to a person, organization, or cause.
malleable = easily influenced; adaptable
empathy = the ability to understand and share the feelings of another.
illusion = false idea or belief
conscience = a person's moral sense of right and wrong, viewed as acting as a guide to one's behaviour.
contentment = a state of happiness and satisfaction.
dyspeptic = a person who suffers from indigestion or bad temper
perspire =  give out sweat through the pores of the skin as a result of heat, physical exertion, or stress.
persevere = continue in a course of action even in the face of difficulty or with little or no indication of success.
contemplation = the action of looking thoughtfully at something for a long time




Eat more greens.
Eat less saturated fat.
Exercise more and burn more calories.
Eat more omega-3 fatty acids.

Overfat? Try timed protein and pre-meal lemon juice.
Undermuscled? Try ginger and sauerkraut.
Can’t sleep? Try upping your saturated fat or using cold exposure.

body recomposition and increased performance

vocabulary of approximately 2,500 high- frequency words.
This will allow you to comprehend more than 95% of all conversation

2.5% of the total subject matter provides 95% of the desired results.

98% comprehension would require at least five years of practice instead of five months.

This incredibly valuable 2.5% is the key, the Archimedes lever, for those
who want the best results in the least time. The trick is finding that 2.5%.

* Working out gives at least four additional hours of productive time every day.

* The minimum effective dose (MED) is defined simply: the smallest dose
that will produce a desired outcome. Anything beyond the MED is wasteful.


*  20 pounds is your new, specific goal : in 28 days
*  Daily one Apple
* 
* Rule #1: Avoid “white” carbohydrates
* 
* White Rice and Potatoes, bread, rice, cereal, potatoes, pasta, and fried food with breading. 
* If you avoid eating anything white, you’ll be safe.


Rule #4: Take one day off per week

I am allowed to eat whatever I want on Saturdays, and I go out of my way to eat ice cream,


If you wanna have more control over your life you should work on being 
more present or conscious throughout the day. Meditation is good for that 
because it also teaches you to just observe without reacting, which you'll 
need if you wanna stay strong once the urges hit.


Increase your ability to focus and cognitive endurance, 
and make you about 50-100% more productive, every day.  
 



 
-------------
Start by developing a vision of what kind of life you desire.

Be specific about it. Super specific.


10 kgs in 28 days. (Dead-line)



Regular exercise isn’t just good for your body..it can also dramatically improve your :
-Brain
-Boost learning capabilities
-Reduce stress levels, ward off depression and anxiety
-Smoothen out Hormonal Fluctuations 
-Reverse signs of aging

http://my.fabulousbody.com/courses/175170/lectures/2652485


Communication skills: Communicating clearly is a skill and it has to be trained.
University or coding contests don't put much emphasis on it.

(clarity) I had a hard time explaining my solutions clearly to other people during high school and first two years of university. I got much better when I started coaching kids for coding contests and writing articles about algorithms in a romanian publication. 

(English proficiency)  People with English as their second language might find it difficult to explain complex technical issues. (and a thick eastern european accent definitely doesn't help :) ).

(introversion) Someone who's introverted might find it hard to verbalize his though process.


-----------

One of them is being able to communicate effectively, 

In the programming competitions often one might value efficiency more than simplicity, but in real applications simplicity has usually higher value. The solution should be as simple as possible among the efficient enough solutions.




https://www.quora.com/How-smart-are-the-red-coders-on-TopCoder

https://www.redgreencode.com/12-reasons-to-study-competitive-programming/



Specific Goals for Redcoder 3 months

In 2 months = Solve 200 most solved problems on SPOJ, Problem by problem.
(This will teach all standard problems, algorithms and implementation skills)

Solve problems from CodeChef and CodeForces for 2 months.
(This will teach variations, we can read others solutions and learn better ways. Skip easy problems)

Solve problems from TopCoder for 2 months.
(This will teach  Dynamic Programming. Div 1 500p)

Check past ACM ICPC Regional's Problems
(Great quality problems)

-----------

went to bed early, closer to 9:30, never late than 10:00 pm.

"You will fall. And when you fall, the winner always gets up."

"We don’t beat the Reaper by living longer. We beat the Reaper by living well."

It is not that we have a short space of time, but that we waste much of it.
Life is long enough, and it has been given in sufficiently generous measure to 
allow the accomplishment of the very greatest things if the whole of it is well invested. 

Success, however you define it, is achievable if you collect the right field-tested beliefs and habits.
You succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them.



"It’s not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it."
"there is nothing harder to learn." -Seneca
"Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace."

our suffering is caused by focusing or obsessing about ourselves and 
what we might lose, have less of, or never have.

Either you master your mind or it masters you. The secret of living an 
extraordinary life is to take control of the mind since this alone will 
determine whether you live in a suffering state or a beautiful state.

Our lives are shaped not by our conditions, but by our decisions.
Your decisions determine the direction of your life and can change your destiny.

Associate with people who are likely to improve you. Welcome those whom you are
capable of improving. The process is a mutual one: men learn as they teach

find contentment in a good conscience.

Without wisdom the mind is sick.

a well spent day consists of getting up a good sweat and then 
replacing the fluid lost with plenty of drink, all the better to be absorbed on a dry
stomach.

The mind has to be given some time off, but in such a way that it may be refreshed

When a person is following a track, there is an eventual endto it 
somewhere, but with wandering at large there is no limit. So give up pointless, empty
journeys.

Anyone entering our homes should admire us rather than our furnishings.



----

A much healthier process allows any developer to work on any code in the system. 

Mental quickness, ability to think abstractly, algorithmic facility, 
problem-solving ability. And most importantly, empathy. 
Because collaboration is the most important thing we do, and it 
doesn’t matter how smart you are if you can’t relate to how other people think.


Specialization is essential.

https://tim.blog/2011/06/07/whats-your-start-up-bus-count-7-myths-of-entrepreneurship-and-programming/




