Whatever we fill our minds with, that is what we become. Our thoughts determine our pleasantness or unpleasantness; 
our social skills or clumsy communications; violent habits or docile ones; success in marriage and in our profession or 
dismal failure. It all depends on how we constitute and reconstitute our minds, not daily, but moment to moment.
Happiness or suffering, success or failure, is not created by others, but by ourselves.



The mind is an energy field. Just as an energy field may be weak or strong, a particular mind-field may 
be weak or strong. A weak energy field may be strengthened through the application of appropriate technology. 
A weakened mind may be strengthened through the application of certain methods: self-experimentation in mental,
vocal, and physical behaviour; self-observation; concentration; and meditation.


resilent = able to withstand or recover quickly from difficult conditions.
resolution = a firm decision to do or not to do something.

A strong mind is resilient, fluid, and compassionate.

a strong mind is humble.

a strong mind is consistent and harmonious.

a strong mind seeks complements and resolution.

A strong mind avoids the first personal pronoun and its variants.



 A weak mind remembers the hurts and harm others have caused to him/her; a strong mind forgets these.

 A weak mind forgets the hurt and harm s/he has caused to others; a strong mind remembers these.

 A weak mind remembers the good and kind acts s/he has done for others; a strong mind forgets these.

 A weak mind forgets the good and kind acts others have done to him/her; a strong mind remembers these.

A weak mind justifies his/her acts; a strong mind apologizes.

A strong mind forgives and also forgets the incident.

A strong mind takes responsibility for others without feeling burdened.

a strong mind takes initiative.

a strong mind trusts.

a strong mind speaks from within a depth of interior silence.

A strong mind has faith in others' positive and good reactions.




















